Hardened systemd unit files (#9803)
matrix-org/synapse: docs/systemd-with-workers/README.md

systemctl enable matrix-synapse-worker@federation_writer.service
systemctl restart matrix-synapse.target
```

## Hardening

**Optional:** If further hardening is desired, the file
`override-hardened.conf` may be copied from
`contrib/systemd/override-hardened.conf` in this repository to the location
`/etc/systemd/system/matrix-synapse.service.d/override-hardened.conf` (the
directory may have to be created). It enables certain sandboxing features in
systemd to further secure the synapse service. You may read the comments to

> understand what the override file is doing. The same file at may also be copied

Reviewer: ```suggestion
understand what the override file is doing. The same file will need to be copied
```

to
`/etc/systemd/system/matrix-synapse-worker@.service.d/override-hardened-worker.conf`
(this directory may also have to be created) in order to apply the same
hardening options to any worker processes.

Once these files have been copied to their appropriate locations, simply reload
systemd's manager config files and restart all Synapse services to apply the hardening options. They will automatically
be applied at every restart as long as the override files are present at the
specified locations.

```sh
systemctl daemon-reload

> # Restart the services

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Restart services
```

systemctl enable matrix-synapse-worker@federation_writer.service
systemctl restart matrix-synapse.target
```

## Hardening

**Optional:** If further hardening is desired, the file
`override-hardened.conf` may be copied from
`contrib/systemd/override-hardened.conf` in this repository to the location
`/etc/systemd/system/matrix-synapse.service.d/override-hardened.conf` (the

> directory will have to be created). It enables certain sandboxing features in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
directory may have to be created). It enables certain sandboxing features in
```

Something may have created it already ¯\\\_(ツ)_/¯

systemd to further secure the synapse service. You may read the comments to
understand what the override file is doing. A similar override file at
`contrib/systemd-with-workers/override-hardened-worker.conf` may be copied to
`/etc/systemd/system/matrix-synapse-worker@.service.d/override-hardened-worker.conf`

> (this directory will also have to be created) in order to apply the same

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(this directory may also have to be created) in order to apply the same
```

hardening options to any worker processes.

> Once these files have been copied to their appropriate locations, simply run
> the following commands to apply the hardening options. They will automatically

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once these files have been copied to their appropriate locations, simply reload
systemd's manager config files and restart all Synapse services to apply the hardening options. They will automatically
```

be applied at every restart as long as the override files are present at the
specified locations.

```sh
systemctl daemon-reload

# Restart the master
systemctl restart matrix-synapse.service

# If using a worker-based setup, restart the workers too.
# To restart a specific worker (eg. federation_reader):

> systemctl restart matrix-synapse-worker@federation_reader.service

Reviewer: People should be able to simply `systemctl restart synapse.target` to restart the master and all configured worker processes, rather than restarting each one individually.

Author: I'll be honest I didn't know this could be done even though I run an instance of Synapse myself! It seems one learns something new at every turn. I mostly copied stuff from the section above mine in the document, as you might have been able to tell.

Regardless I've made the suggested change.
